build and test documentation improvements (#79)
apache/cassandra-website: site-content/source/modules/ROOT/pages/development/testing.adoc

test Cassandra via https://github.com/riptano/ccm[CCM] verifying
operation results, logs, and cluster state. Python Distributed tests are
Cassandra version agnostic. They include upgrade tests.

The recipes for running those tests can be found in the cassandra-builds repository https://github.com/apache/cassandra-builds/tree/trunk/build-scripts[here].

Running full test suites locally takes hours, if not days. Beyond running specific tests you know are applicable, or are failing, to the work at hand, it is recommended to rely upon the project's https://cassandra.apache.org/_/development/ci.html[Continuous Integration systems]. If you are not a committer, and don't have access to a premium CircleCI plan, ask one of the committers to test your patch on the project's https://ci-cassandra.apache.org/[ci-cassandra.apache.org].

[#java_tests]
== Java tests

The simplest test to write for Cassandra code is a unit test. Cassandra
uses JUnit as a testing framework and test cases can be found in the
`test/unit` directory. Ideally, you’d be able to create a unit test for
your implementation that would exclusively cover the class you created

> (the unit under test).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`test/unit` directory. Ideally, you’ll create a unit test for
your implementation that exclusively covers the class you created
(the unit under test).
```

Unfortunately, this is not always possible, because Cassandra doesn't
have a very mock friendly code base. Often you’ll find yourself in a
situation where you have to use the embedded Cassandra instance to

> interact with your test. If you want to make use of CQL in your test,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
interact with your test. If you want to use CQL in your test,
```

there is a Cassandra cluster that is already running. Each test case
starts the CQLSH client as a subprocess, issues some commands, and
verifies the outcome returned by CQLSH to the console. In Cassandra 4.0,
there are ~90 test cases for this category

- *Python Distributed tests (dtests)* - Python distributed tests are
implemented on top of the PyTest framework and located outside the main
Cassandra project in the separate repository
https://github.com/apache/cassandra-dtest[apache/cassandra-dtest]. They
are testing Cassandra by starting a cluster consisting of one or more
nodes and performing various operations against that cluster. After the
test procedure, they verify the operation results, logs (no unexpected
errors), and the ultimate cluster state. Because they utilize the
https://github.com/riptano/ccm[CCM library] internally, unlike CQLSH
tests, no running cluster is assumed. Python Distributed tests are
Cassandra version agnostic, so you run the same set of tests against
whichever Cassandra version you want. The tests have various assumptions
internally, making the framework skip the tests that are not relevant

> to the Cassandra version you are testing

Reviewer 2: I'd be inclined to separate the JUnit tests from Java DTests. Even if they can both be classified as "tests running in the JVM", they are very different types of tests and require very different approaches to execute them. I'd also make the list more concise in its description of each, as you have sections below to elaborate more on each.

My breakdown of tests has been:

- proper unit,
- single node units*,
- cqlsh tests,
- burn tests,
- in-jvm dtests, 
- in-jvm upgrade dtests,
- python dtests*, 
- python upgrade dtests, 
- microbench tests,

```suggestion
- *JUnit tests* - implemented in Java and found in the
Cassandra project under `test/unit/` and `test/long/`. Consists of unit tests and single-node integration tests. 

- *JVM distributed tests (dtests)* - tests implemented in Java and found in the
Cassandra project found in the `test/distributed`. Integrated tests against multiple nodes, each running in their own classpath. Also contains upgrade tests.

- *CQLSH tests* - CQLSH tests are Python tests written with the Nose
test framework. They test the `cqlsh` client that is found in
the bin directory and its cqlshlib found in `pylib/cqlshlib`. The tests are found in the Cassandra project under `pylib/cqlshlib/test`.

- *Python Distributed tests (dtests)* - Python distributed tests are
implemented on top of the PyTest framework and located outside the main
Cassandra project in the separate repository
https://github.com/apache/cassandra-dtest[cassandra-dtest]. They
test Cassandra via CCM, verifying operation results, logs, and cluster state. Python Distributed tests are
Cassandra version agnostic. Also contains upgrade tests.
```

Author: Well, the rule for my breakdown was the way how the tests are executed - in case of unit and dtests I put them together in this breakdown because technically you run them with Ant or IntelliJ. They are obviously detailed in separate sub-sections, but still there are some aspects of running those tests which are common - like running multiple tests, filtering or running with coverage. 

I can try make the difference between different kinds of JVM tests more explicit though

Reviewer 2: yeah. also note how we break them down in jira 
<img width="304" alt="Screenshot 2021-10-25 at 12 13 30" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/559444/138677790-d34c9d6a-2493-426e-941c-b990c31d77b5.png">

Reviewer 2: I guess… there's two different perspectives here and they are both valuable feedback to the newcomer. A) how the different tests are run (and categorising them that way…), and B) how the project community classifies them (more type of test and its application, rather than just the approach of running them…)

Author: Well, indeed, that page about testing is focused about how to run tests. Tests which are run in the same way are grouped together because they share many details. Description of the community classification would be great addition, perhaps in a separate section or somewhere in Getting Started page

You can run all of them locally, though it would take many, many hours
without setting up parallelization and running on parallel workers. The
maintainers of the open-source Apache Cassandra run those tests on one
of the official CIs when your patch is about to be merged. Basically,
two CIs are running for Apache Cassandra - one of them is based on
CircleCI, which is integrated with GitHub. The recipes for running those
tests can be found in the Cassandra project repository
https://github.com/apache/cassandra/tree/trunk/.circleci[here]. The
other CI is based on Jenkins and can be found at
https://ci-cassandra.apache.org/[here]. When you ask a maintainer to run
the tests for your branch, they likely run one of the jobs visible under
the _patches_ tab. Read more on the motivation behind

> http://www.datastax.com/dev/blog/cassandra-testing-improvements-for-developer-convenience-and-confidence[continuous integration].

Reviewer 2: Uncomfortable with the linking to the datastax blog here. I also think we are talking too much about CI systems here, when we have a separate page for that. We should also refer to the build scripts found in the cassandra-builds repository as the reference, instead of the circleci yaml.

```suggestion
The recipes for running those tests can be found in the cassandra-builds repository https://github.com/apache/cassandra-builds/tree/trunk/build-scripts[here].

Running full test suites locally takes hours, if not days. Beyond running specific tests you know are applicable, or are failing, to the work at hand, it is recommended to rely upon the project's https://cassandra.apache.org/_/development/ci.html[Continuous Integration systems]. If you are not a committer, and don't have access to a premium CircleCI plan, ask one of the committers to test your patch on the project's https://ci-cassandra.apache.org/[ci-cassandra.apache.org].
```

> == JVM unit tests

Reviewer 2: Let's refer to these just as `JUnit tests` so not to confuse them with the `jvm-dtests`.

}
----

[#junit_tests]
=== JUnit tests

> To run the unit tests, simply call:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the unit tests:
```

[source,none]
----
ant test
----

> However, this is probably not what you would usually want to do. That

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, this is probably not what you want to do, since that
```

command would run all the unit tests (those from `test/unit`). It would
take about an hour or more to finish.

To run the specific test class or even a method, use the following
command:

[source,none]
----
ant testsome -Dtest.name=<TestClassName> -Dtest.method=<testMethodName>
----

- `test.name` property is for either a simple or fully qualified class
name
- `test.method` property is optional; if not specified, all test cases
from the specified class are executed. Though, you can also specify
multiple methods separating them by comma

> You can also use IDE to run the tests - when you generate IDE files and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also use the IDE to run the tests - when you generate IDE files and
```

> properly import the Cassandra project, you should be able to run the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
properly import the Cassandra project, you can run the
```

tests by right-clicking on the test class or package name. Remember that
it is not enough to compile with IDE for some tests, and you need to
call `ant jar` to build the distribution artifacts. It is required when
the test runs some tool as an external process, and that tool expects

> Cassandra artifacts to be in the build directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
call `ant jar` to build the distribution artifacts. When
the test runs some tool as an external process, the tool expects
Cassandra artifacts to be in the build directory.
```

Cassandra 3.11 to the current version (say Cassandra 4.0), we need to
have prepared dtest uber JARs for all involved versions. To do this:

. Check out Cassandra 3.0 based branch you want to test the upgrade
from into some other directory

. Build dtest uber JAR with `ant dtest-jar` command

. Copy the created `build/dtest-3.0.x.jar` to the build
directory of your target Cassandra project

. Repeat the procedure for Cassandra 3.11

. Once you have dtest jars of all the involved versions for the upgrade
test, you can finally execute the test using your favorite method, say:

[source, shell script]
----
ant test-jvm-dtest-some -Dtest.name=org.apache.cassandra.distributed.upgrade.MixedModeReadTest
----

[TIP]
.Hint
====
You may pre-generate dtest uber JARs for certain past Cassandra
releases, store is somewhere and reuse in you future work - no need to
rebuild them all the time.
====

=== Running multiple tests

It is possible to define a list of test classes that would run with a
single command. To do that, you need to define a text file, by default
called `testlist.txt`, and put it into your project directory. Such a

> file may look like the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to define a list of test classes to run with a single command. 
Define a text file, by default called `testlist.txt`, and put it into your project directory. 
Here is an example of that file:
```

[source,none]
----
org/apache/cassandra/db/ReadCommandTest.java
org/apache/cassandra/db/ReadCommandVerbHandlerTest.java
----

Essentially, you list the paths to the class files of the tests you want

> to run. Then you just call `ant testclasslist` - it takes that text file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to run. Then you call `ant testclasslist`, which uses the text file
```

> and runs the tests listed there. Note that - by default, it applies to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to run the listed tests. Note that, by default, it applies to
```

the tests under the `test/unit` directory and takes the `testlist.txt`
file, but this behavior can be modified by providing additional
parameters:

[source,shell script]
----
ant testclasslist -Dtest.classlistprefix=<category> -Dtest.classlistfile=<class list file>
----

For example, if we want to run the distributed tests this way, and say
we listed our tests in the `distributed-tests-set.txt` file (paths to
test classes relative to `test/distributed` directory), we can do that
by calling:

[source,shell script]
----
ant testclasslist -Dtest.classlistprefix=distributed -Dtest.classlistfile=distributed-tests-set.txt
----

=== Running coverage analysis

Coverage reports from the executed JVM tests can be obtained in two ways
- through IDE - for example, IntelliJ supports running tests with
coverage analysis - it is just another run button next to the one for

> running in debug mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
coverage analysis (another run button next to the one for running in debug mode).
```

for all the ways mentioned above of running JVM tests - the only
difference is that instead of specifying the target directly, we pass it
as a property called `taskname`. For example - given the original test
command is:

[source,shell script]
----
ant testsome -Dtest.name=org.apache.cassandra.utils.concurrent.AccumulatorTest
----

to run it with coverage analysis, we do:

[source,shell script]
----
ant codecoverage -Dtaskname=testsome -Dtest.name=org.apache.cassandra.utils.concurrent.AccumulatorTest
----

It applies to all the targets like `test`, `testsome`, `test-long`,
etc., even `testclasslist`. You can find the coverage report in
`build/jacoco` (`index.html` is the entry point for the HTML version,
but there are also XML and CSV reports).

Note that if you run various tests that way, the coverage information is
added to the previously collected runs. That is, you get the cumulative
coverage from all runs unless you clean up the project or at least clean
up the recorded coverage information by executing the command
`ant jacoco-cleanup`.

[#microbenchmarks]
=== Micro-benchmarks

To run micro-benchmarks, you first need to build the uber jar for the

> JMH framework. It can be accomplished by invoking:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run micro-benchmarks, first build the uber jar for the JMH framework. 
Use the following `ant` command:
```

[source,shell script]
----
ant build-jmh
----

Then, you can run either all benchmarks (from the `test/microbench`
directory) or the tests matching the name specified by the
`benchmark.name` property when executing the `ant microbench` command.
Whether you run all benchmarks or just a selected one, only classes
under the `microbench` package are selected. Actually the class

> selection pattern is as `.\*microbench.*${benchmark.name}`. For example,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
under the `microbench` package are selected. 
The class selection pattern is actually: `.\*microbench.*${benchmark.name}`. 
For example,
```

in order to run `org.apache.cassandra.test.microbench.ChecksumBench`,

> you may execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
execute:
```

[source,shell script]
----
ant microbench -Dbenchmark.name=ChecksumBench
----

The `ant microbench` command runs the benchmarks with default parameters
as defined in the `build.xml` file (see the `microbench` target
definition). If you want to run JMH with custom parameters, you may

> consider using the `test/bin/jmh` script. Apart from allowing you to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
definition). If you want to run JMH with custom parameters, 
consider using the `test/bin/jmh` script. In addition to allowing you to
```

customize JMH options, it also sets up the environment and JVM options
by running Cassandra init script (`conf/cassandra-env.sh`), so the
environment for running the tests is more similar to the production

> environment. For example:

Reviewer: This whole sentence is long! Consider breaking it into 2 sentences.

Author: The `ant microbench` command runs the benchmarks with default parameters
as defined in the `build.xml` file (see the `microbench` target
definition). If you want to run JMH with custom parameters,
consider using the `test/bin/jmh` script. In addition to allowing you to
customize JMH options, it also sets up the environment and JVM options
by running Cassandra init script (`conf/cassandra-env.sh`). Therefore,
it lets the environment for running the tests to be more similar to
the production environment. For example:

Reviewer: 👍

[source,shell script]
----
test/bin/jmh -gc true org.apache.cassandra.test.microbench.CompactionBench.compactTest
----

You may also find it useful to run the command to list all the tests:
`test/bin/jmh -l` or `test/bin/jmh -lp` (also showing the default
parameters). The list of all options can be shown by running
`test/bin/jmh -h`

== Python tests

=== Docker

> It is recommended to use the Docker approach to run the Python distributed tests for repeatable behavior matching the same environment as it is tested on the official

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Docker approach is recommended, for running the Python distributed tests. The behavior will be more repeatable, matching the same environment as the official testing on
```

https://ci-cassandra.apache.org/[Cassandra CI].

==== Setup Docker

Make sure you have Docker Desktop enabled if you want to use it - in the

> case of Docker Desktop, you need to specify the amount of resource you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure you have Docker for Desktop enabled if you want to use it. 
For Docker for Desktop, specify the amount of resource you
```

Author: I refactored this section a bit

want to give the underlying virtual machine. Most distributed tests are
not that demanding - usually, 4G / 2 cores should be enough to start one
node. However, some tests really run multiple nodes, and some of them
are automatically skipped if your machine has less than 32G - there is

> a way to force running them anyway. We will go back to that later. I

Reviewer: "We will go back to that later."
Do you discuss that in a different section? If so, say something like "To force run tests, see xref:<give-the-link>."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a way to force running them anyway. We will go back to that later. Commonly,
```

> usually use 8G / 4 cores out of 32G / 12 cores total available on my Mac.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8G / 4 cores out of 32G / 12 cores total available on a Macbook Pro is reasonable.
```

Author: Whole discussion about resource usage went into a hint

==== Pull the Docker image

The Docker image used on the official Cassandra CI can be found in
https://github.com/apache/cassandra-builds[this] repository.
You can use either
https://github.com/apache/cassandra-builds/blob/trunk/docker/testing/ubuntu2004_j11.docker[docker/testing/ubuntu2004_j11.docker]
or
https://github.com/apache/cassandra-builds/blob/trunk/docker/testing/ubuntu2004_j11_w_dependencies.docker[docker/testing/ubuntu2004_j11_w_dependencies.docker]

> - the latter one has additional dependencies for upgrade testing (read

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second choice has additional dependencies for upgrade testing (read
```

> more about that in the next section). Those images can be either built

Reviewer: put a link to the next section

locally (as per instructions in the GitHub repo) or pulled from the
Docker Hub - see
https://hub.docker.com/search?q=apache%2Fcassandra-testing&type=image[here].

> So, firstly pull the image from Docker Hub (it will either fetch or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, pull the image from Docker Hub (it will either fetch or
```

update the image you previously fetched):

[source, shell script]
----
docker pull apache/cassandra-testing-ubuntu2004-java11-w-dependencies
----

==== Start the container

> Then, we can start the container and play with it:

Reviewer: Actually, remove this sentence entirely.

[source, shell script]
----
docker run -di -m 8G --cpus 4 \
--mount type=bind,source=/path/to/cassandra/project,target=/home/cassandra/cassandra \
--mount type=bind,source=/path/to/cassandra-dtest,target=/home/cassandra/cassandra-dtest \
--name test \
apache/cassandra-testing-ubuntu2004-java11-w-dependencies \
dumb-init bash
----

> Then, to log into the container:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To log into the container, use the following `docker exec` command:
```

familiar with the Python ecosystem, you know what it is all about.
Otherwise, just follow the instructions; it should be enough to run the
tests.

For Python distributed tests do:

[source, shell script]
----
cd /home/cassandra/cassandra-dtest
virtualenv --python=python3 --clear --always-copy ../dtest-venv
source ../dtest-venv/bin/activate
CASS_DRIVER_NO_CYTHON=1 pip install -r requirements.txt
----

For CQLSH tests, just replace some paths:

[source, shell script]
----
cd /home/cassandra/cassandra/pylib
virtualenv --python=python3 --clear --always-copy ../../cqlsh-venv
source ../../cqlsh-venv/bin/activate
CASS_DRIVER_NO_CYTHON=1 pip install -r requirements.txt
----

[TIP]
.Hint
====
You may wonder why we added this weird environment variable `CASS_DRIVER_NO_CYTHON=1` - it is not required at all. Still, it allows avoiding the compilation of Cassandra driver with Cython, which is not needed unless you want to test that Cython compiled driver. In the end, it speeds up the installation of the requirements significantly from the order of minutes to the order of seconds.
====

The above commands are also helpful for importing those test projects

> into your IDE - for that purpose, you need to run them on your host

Reviewer: ```suggestion
into your IDE. In that case, you need to run them on your host
```

> system (rather than in Docker container). For example, when you open the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
system rather than in Docker container. For example, when you open the
```

----

When those commands complete successfully, we have a cluster up and
running, and we can run the CQLSH tests. To do so, go to the
`pylib/cqlshlib` directory (not to the test subdirectory) and just call
the `nosetests` command without any arguments. The tests take around
5 minutes to complete.

Finally, remember that since you manually started the cluster, you need
to stop it manually - just call:

[source, shell script]
----
ccm remove test
----

There is a helper script that does all of those things for you. In
particular, it builds the Cassandra project, creates a virtual
environment, runs the CCM cluster, executes the tests, and eventually
removes the cluster. You find the script in the `pylib` directory. The
only argument it requires is the Cassandra project directory:

[source, shell script]
----
cassandra@b69a382da7cd:~/cassandra/pylib$ ./cassandra-cqlsh-tests.sh /home/cassandra/cassandra
----

As you noticed, if you have already built Cassandra, the previous method
of running tests is much faster. Just remember that all the
`ccm updateconf` calls must be aligned with the Cassandra version you
are testing - that is, just enable the supported features because

> Cassandra won’t start otherwise.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are testing, with the supported features enabled. 
Otherwise, Cassandra won’t start.
```

or
https://github.com/apache/cassandra-builds/blob/trunk/docker/testing/ubuntu2004_j11_w_dependencies.docker[docker/testing/ubuntu2004_j11_w_dependencies.docker]
The second choice has additional dependencies for upgrade testing (read
// TODO - explain what is in the extended image
more about that in the next section). Those images can be either built
locally (as per instructions in the GitHub repo) or pulled from the
Docker Hub - see
https://hub.docker.com/search?q=apache%2Fcassandra-testing&type=image[here].
First, pull the image from Docker Hub (it will either fetch or
update the image you previously fetched):

[source,plaintext]
----
docker pull apache/cassandra-testing-ubuntu2004-java11-w-dependencies
----

==== Start the container

[source,plaintext]
----
docker run -di -m 8G --cpus 4 \
--mount type=bind,source=/path/to/cassandra/project,target=/home/cassandra/cassandra \
--mount type=bind,source=/path/to/cassandra-dtest,target=/home/cassandra/cassandra-dtest \
--name test \
apache/cassandra-testing-ubuntu2004-java11-w-dependencies \
dumb-init bash
----

[TIP]

> .Hint

Reviewer: Yes - I like this rewrite!

name
- `test.method` property is optional; if not specified, all test cases
from the specified class are executed. Though, you can also specify
multiple methods separating them by comma

You can also use IDE to run the tests - when you generate IDE files and
properly import the Cassandra project, you should be able to run the
tests by right-clicking on the test class or package name. Remember that
it is not enough to compile with IDE for some tests, and you need to
call `ant jar` to build the distribution artifacts. It is required when
the test runs some tool as an external process, and that tool expects
Cassandra artifacts to be in the build directory.

Note that those commands apply to the tests in the `test/unit`
directory. There are, however, some other test categories that have
tests in individual directories:

- `test/burn` - to run them, first build the uber jar with
`ant burn-test-jar`, and then to run the tests call `ant test-burn` or
`ant burn-testsome`
- `test/long` - to run them, call `ant long-test` or `ant long-testsome`
- `test/memory` - to run them, call `ant test-memory`
- `test/microbench` discussed in <<microbenchmarks>>

> - `test/distributed` discussed in <<jvm_distributed_tests>>

Reviewer 2: As mentioned above, the jvm-dtests are such a different beast they deserve their own section.

Author: yup, they have one :)

[#jvm_distributed_tests]
=== JVM distributed tests

JVM distributed tests can run a cluster of nodes inside a single JVM -
they utilize a particular framework (that can be found at
https://github.com/apache/cassandra-in-jvm-dtest-api[apache/cassandra-in-jvm-dtest-api])
for that purpose. Those tests are intended to test features that require
more started nodes or verify specific behaviors when the nodes get
restarted, including upgrading them from one version to another. The
tests are located at the `test/distributed` directory of the Cassandra
project; however, only `org.apache.cassandra.distributed.test` and
`org.apache.cassandra.upgrade` packages contain the actual tests. The
rest of the files are various utilities related to the distributed tests
framework.

The distributed tests can be run in few ways. `ant test-jvm-dtest`
command runs all the distributed JVM tests. It is not very useful; thus,
we have also `ant test-jvm-dtest-some`, which allows specifying test
class and test name in the same way as we could do that for the
`ant testsome` command (see the JVM unit tests section). Distributed
tests can also be run using IDE (in fact, I could successfully run JVM

> distributed tests in IntelliJ and even debug them).

Reviewer 2: this section deserves some command line examples

----
ant testclasslist -Dtest.classlistprefix=<category> -Dtest.classlistfile=<class list file>
----

For example, if we want to run the distributed tests this way, and say
we listed our tests in the `distributed-tests-set.txt` file (paths to
test classes relative to `test/distributed` directory), we can do that
by calling:

[source,shell script]
----
ant testclasslist -Dtest.classlistprefix=distributed -Dtest.classlistfile=distributed-tests-set.txt
----

=== Running coverage analysis

Coverage reports from the executed JVM tests can be obtained in two ways
- through IDE - for example, IntelliJ supports running tests with
coverage analysis - it is just another run button next to the one for
running in debug mode.

The other way is to run Ant target `codecoverage`. Basically, it works
for all the ways mentioned above of running JVM tests - the only
difference is that instead of specifying the target directly, we pass it
as a property called `taskname`. For example - given the original test
command is:

[source,shell script]
----
ant testsome -Dtest.name=org.apache.cassandra.utils.concurrent.AccumulatorTest
----

to run it with coverage analysis, we do:

[source,shell script]
----

> ant codecoverage -Dtaskname=testsome -Dtest.name=org.apache.cassandra.utils.concurrent.AccumulatorTest

Reviewer 2: what about `ant jacoco-run` ? 
some background context also in https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/CASSANDRA-16369

Author: If you think about accumulating execution info from several runs, I suppose `codecoverage` does the job as well. When you run either `jacoco-run` or `codecoverage`, the execution data are put into `partials/partial.exec`.

When you run `codecoverage`, it additionally run `jacoco-report`, which firstly merges results from the previous runs in `jacoco.exec` with results from the last run `partials/partial.exec` and replaces the existing `jacoco.exec`. Eventually it generates the report. As mentioned in this description, you will accumulate the results until you explicitly call `jacoco-clean` to wipe the accumulated results

Whether you run all benchmarks or just a selected one, only classes
under the `microbench` package are selected. Actually the class
selection pattern is as `.\*microbench.*${benchmark.name}`. For example,
in order to run `org.apache.cassandra.test.microbench.ChecksumBench`,
you may execute:

[source,shell script]
----
ant microbench -Dbenchmark.name=ChecksumBench
----

The `ant microbench` command runs the benchmarks with default parameters
as defined in the `build.xml` file (see the `microbench` target
definition). If you want to run JMH with custom parameters, you may
consider using the `test/bin/jmh` script. Apart from allowing you to
customize JMH options, it also sets up the environment and JVM options
by running Cassandra init script (`conf/cassandra-env.sh`), so the
environment for running the tests is more similar to the production
environment. For example:

[source,shell script]
----
test/bin/jmh -gc true org.apache.cassandra.test.microbench.CompactionBench.compactTest
----

You may also find it useful to run the command to list all the tests:
`test/bin/jmh -l` or `test/bin/jmh -lp` (also showing the default
parameters). The list of all options can be shown by running

> `test/bin/jmh -h`

Reviewer 2: Nice.
There's also some background context in CASSANDRA-16371

Author: Would you like me to add a link to JMH results on CI?

Reviewer 2: No. it is good as it is.

== Python tests

=== Docker

It is not entirely required to run Python tests in Docker. Still, it is
recommended to get repeatable behavior, especially if you want to test
something in the same environment as it is tested on the official

> Cassandra CI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use the Docker approach to run the Python distributed tests for repeatable behavior matching the same environment as it is tested on the official
https://ci-cassandra.apache.org/[Cassandra CI].
```

are automatically skipped if your machine has less than 32G - there is
a way to force running them anyway. We will go back to that later. I
usually use 8G / 4 cores out of 32G / 12 cores total available on my Mac.

==== Pull the Docker image

The Docker image used on the official Cassandra CI can be found in
https://github.com/apache/cassandra-builds[this] repository.
You can use either
https://github.com/apache/cassandra-builds/blob/trunk/docker/testing/ubuntu2004_j11.docker[docker/testing/ubuntu2004_j11.docker]
or
https://github.com/apache/cassandra-builds/blob/trunk/docker/testing/ubuntu2004_j11_w_dependencies.docker[docker/testing/ubuntu2004_j11_w_dependencies.docker]
- the latter one has additional dependencies for upgrade testing (read
more about that in the next section). Those images can be either built
locally (as per instructions in the GitHub repo) or pulled from the
Docker Hub - see
https://hub.docker.com/search?q=apache%2Fcassandra-testing&type=image[here].
So, firstly pull the image from Docker Hub (it will either fetch or
update the image you previously fetched):

[source, shell script]
----
docker pull apache/cassandra-testing-ubuntu2004-java11-w-dependencies
----

> ==== Start the container

Reviewer 2: Could we add in here the simplest approach, which is to use the existing scripts in cassandra-builds, e.g. `cassandra-dtest-pytest-docker.sh` 
(Same goes for `https://github.com/apache/cassandra-builds/blob/trunk/build-scripts/cassandra-test-docker.sh` for the unit tests.)

These scripts allow you to do everything (and also just for specified tests) with a single command line.

Author: Yes, but as you said - "everything", which is useful for running in CI. If someone wants to run a single test or class, perhaps with some debugging, they will probably need to go this way?

Reviewer 2: Ideally I would have liked to have seen a simpler recipe here, using the `SPLIT_TESTS` variable. But that's not quite set up and working like I thought it was.

What's you got here is already a fantastic addition, let's go with it…

Author: thanks

node2_startup-1627456481.10463-stderr.log
node2_startup-1627456481.10463-stdout.log
----

Those log files are not collected if `--delete-logs` command-line option
is added to PyTest. The nodes also produce data files which may be
sometimes useful to examine to resolve some failures. Those files are
usually deleted when the test is completed, but there are some options
to control that behavior:

- `--keep-test-dir` - keep the whole CCM directory with data files and
logs when the test completes
- `--keep-failed-test-dir` – only keep that directory when the test has
failed

Now, how to find where is that directory for the certain test - you need
to grab that information from the test logs - for example, you may add
`-s` option to the command line and then look for `"dtest_setup INFO"`
messages. For example:

[source,plain]
----
05:56:06,383 dtest_setup INFO cluster ccm directory: /tmp/dtest-0onwvgkr
----

says that the cluster work directory is `/tmp/dtest-0onwvgkr`, and we
can find there all node directories under the test subdirectory:

[source, shell script]
----
(venv) cassandra@b69a382da7cd:~/cassandra-dtest$ ls /tmp/dtest-0onwvgkr/test -1
cluster.conf
node1
node2
----

> == Performance Testing

Reviewer 2: In this section can we mention the microbench tests, and remove cstar_perf from the list below.

for all the invocations, can be put into the `pytest.ini` file. In
particular, it is quite practical to define the following:

[source, none]
----
cassandra_dir = /home/cassandra/cassandra
log_cli = True
log_cli_level = DEBUG
----

so that you do not have to provide `--cassandra-dir` param each time you
run a test. The other two options set up console logging - remove them
if you want logs stored only in log files.

==== Running tests with specific configuration

There are a couple of options to enforce exact test configuration (their
names are quite self-explanatory):

- `--use-vnodes`
- `--num-token=xxx` - enables the support of virtual nodes with a certain
number of tokens
- `--use-off-heap-memtables` - use off-heap memtables instead of the
default heap-based
- `--data-dir-count-per-instance=xxx - the number of data directories
configured per each instance

Note that the list can grow in the future as new predefined
configurations can be added to dtests. It is also possible to pass extra
Java properties to each Cassandra node started by the tests - define
those options in the `JVM_EXTRA_OPTS` environment variable before
running the test.

==== Listing the tests

> There is a way to do a dry run so that the tests are only listed and not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can do a dry run, so that the tests are only listed and not
```

> invoked. To do that, just add `--collect-only` to the pytest command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
invoked. To do that, add `--collect-only` to the pytest command.
```

> That additional `-q` option will make the results be printed in the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That additional `-q` option will print the  results in the same
```

schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_creating_and_dropping_table_with_2ary_indexes
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_creating_and_dropping_user_types
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_creating_and_dropping_udf
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_creating_and_dropping_uda
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_basic_table_datatype
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_collection_table_datatype
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_clustering_order
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_compact_storage
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_compact_storage_composite
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_nondefault_table_settings
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_indexes
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_durable_writes
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_static_column
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_udt_table
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_udf
schema_metadata_test.py::TestSchemaMetadata::test_uda
----

> You can just copy/paste the selected test case to the pytest command to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can copy/paste the selected test case to the pytest command to
```

annotation (just like we would run PyTest with `-m 'upgrade_test'`)

===== Filtering examples

It does not matter whether you want to invoke individual tests or all
tests or whether you only want to list them; the above filtering rules
apply. So by using `--collect-only` option, you can learn which tests
would be invoked.

To list all the applicable tests for the current configuration, use the
following command:

[source, shell script]
----
pytest --collect-only -q --execute-upgrade-tests --force-resource-intensive-tests
----

List tests specific to vnodes (which would only run if vnodes are enabled):

[source, shell script]
----
pytest --collect-only -q --execute-upgrade-tests --force-resource-intensive-tests --use-vnodes -m vnodes
----

List tests that are not resource-intensive

[source, shell script]
----
pytest --collect-only -q --execute-upgrade-tests --skip-resource-intensive-tests
----

==== Upgrade tests

Upgrade tests always involve more than one product version. There are
two kinds of upgrade tests regarding the product versions they span -
let’s call them fixed and generated.

In case of fixed tests, the origin and target versions are hardcoded.

> When we list such upgrade tests, they look pretty usual, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To list upgrade tests, for example:
```

Author: They look pretty usual, for example:

[source, shell script]
----
pytest --collect-only -q --execute-upgrade-tests --execute-upgrade-tests-only upgrade_tests/upgrade_supercolumns_test.py
----

prints:

> [source, shell script]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,plaintext]
```

upgrade_tests/cql_tests.py::TestCQLNodes2RF1_Upgrade_current_3_11_x_To_indev_3_11_x::test_set
upgrade_tests/cql_tests.py::TestCQLNodes2RF1_Upgrade_current_4_0_x_To_indev_4_0_x::test_set
upgrade_tests/cql_tests.py::TestCQLNodes2RF1_Upgrade_indev_2_2_x_To_indev_3_0_x::test_set
upgrade_tests/cql_tests.py::TestCQLNodes2RF1_Upgrade_indev_2_2_x_To_indev_3_11_x::test_set
upgrade_tests/cql_tests.py::TestCQLNodes2RF1_Upgrade_indev_3_0_x_To_indev_3_11_x::test_set
upgrade_tests/cql_tests.py::TestCQLNodes2RF1_Upgrade_indev_3_0_x_To_indev_4_0_x::test_set
upgrade_tests/cql_tests.py::TestCQLNodes2RF1_Upgrade_indev_3_11_x_To_indev_4_0_x::test_set
upgrade_tests/cql_tests.py::TestCQLNodes2RF1_Upgrade_indev_4_0_x_To_indev_trunk::test_set
----

In this example, the test case name is just `test_set`, and the class
name is `TestCQL` - the suffix of the class name is automatically
generated from the provided specification. The first component is the
cluster specification - we have two variants: `Nodes2RF1` and `Nodes3RF3`
- they denote that the upgrade is tested on 2 nodes cluster with a
keyspace using replication factor = 1. Analogously the second variant
uses 3 nodes cluster with RF = 3.

> Then we have the upgrade specification - for example,

Reviewer: You have mixed "I", "We", and "You" throughout this document. Pick one and use it for consistency. "You" is the most commonly used, so I suggest that.
